
When starting a new job, it’s important to introduce yourself to everyone in order to make a good impression. Although greeting everyone in person is ideal, you may be too busy with the onboarding process. That’s why sending a well-written email is a great alternative. Here we discuss the steps of writing a quality self-introduction email to your team and share a template and example you can use as inspiration.
Learn more: 5 Questions to Ask When You Start a New Job




    The importance of writing a self-introduction email to your team

Writing a self-introduction email to your team is important because it shows your enthusiasm to get to know everybody. It's a great way to give your coworkers some background information about yourself and explain what role you're taking on in the company. Early correspondence with your team can help you build a solid foundation of connections at work. The sooner everyone gets to know you, the sooner you can all begin to develop strong interpersonal relationships.
Learn more: 10 Things You Should Never Do When Starting A New Job



    How to write a self-introduction email to your team

Follow these steps when writing a self-introduction email to your team:
1. Write a friendly subject line
When employees' inboxes get flooded with hundreds of emails each week, it's important that you write a subject line that captures their attention. This is especially important since, as a new person, your coworkers may not recognize your email address yet. The following examples are appropriate introduction subject lines you could use:

A note from the new [Job Title]
A quick 'hello' from the new [Job Title]
'Hello' from [Name], the new [Job Title]

2. Choose your tone based on the company culture
The tone of your introduction email can vary based on where you work. If your company culture is more laid back and open, you can make your tone upbeat and friendly. If it's more serious and professional, then keep your introduction email more straightforward, though it should still read as polite.
3. Explain why you're writing
Start your email by explaining why you're writing. Share that you are the new person at work and are eager to get to know everybody. You could even add in a few lines about how you are looking forward to joining such a hard-working team.
Learn more: Starting A New Job? Follow ‘The 30/60/90 Plan'
4. Describe your background and new role
Since everyone may not work directly with you, it's good to inform them about what role you are taking on at the company. You could even give a little overview of what your main responsibilities or priorities will be. If you are overseeing any employees, you could explain that you are their new supervisor. Likewise, give your team a little background information about who you are and what your previous professional experience is.
5. Show your enthusiasm
Starting a new job is an exciting endeavor, so show this in your email. By being friendly from the start, you are creating a good first impression for yourself. You could even add a few lines about how you're looking forward to doing some impactful work together.
Learn more: 5 Ways To Successfully Start A New Job Remotely
6. Send follow-up messages
If your team replies with any follow-up questions, feel free to reply to them directly. By being prompt with your replies, you can start to establish back-and-forth communication and begin to build your relationships. Perhaps your email conversation will be a good starting point when it's time to talk in person.



    Self-introduction email template

Use this template to help you write your own self-introduction email to your team:
Hi Everyone,
My name is [Your Name], and I am the new [Job Title] at [Company Name]. I am writing to formally introduce myself and share a little bit about the work I'll be doing here.
As the [Job Title], I will be responsible for [Your responsibilities]. I am eager to work directly with [Names] and [More details about the work you'll be doing].
While I was applying for this role, I noticed [Key good qualities of the business], which made me excited to accept this job offer.
I'd like to share some details about my own professional experience. [2-3 sentences about your experience].
If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me directly. I look forward to getting to know all of you!
Best,
[Your Name]



    Self-introduction email example

This filled-in example email is a great starting point when writing your self-introduction email to your team:
Hi Everyone,
My name is Carly Layber, and I am the new Marketing Specialist at ABC Company. I am writing to formally introduce myself and share a little bit about the work I'll be doing here. 
As the Marketing Specialist, I will be responsible for planning and executing all of our external communications. I will also be in charge of overseeing all of our social media channels and working to connect with market influencers. I am eager to work directly with Chloe and Kat to create exciting marketing campaigns. With their creative abilities and my analytical side, I can see us three doing great work. 
While I was applying for this role, I noticed the tight-knit company culture here, which made me excited to accept this job offer. I hope that over the course of the next few weeks I get the chance to meet you all in person. 
I'd like to share some details about my own professional experience. Prior to accepting this position, I did a lot of freelance work. My biggest clients were in the fast-food industry. Although these experiences taught me a lot and helped me get a large portfolio of work, I am looking forward to having a more collaborative work environment. 
If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me directly. I look forward to getting to know all of you!
Best,
Carly Layber


